---
title:  "County houses Veterans during Operation: REVEILLE"
url: "#"
image: "rev.jpg"
cat: "Event"
---

Corey Nichols found his blessing in an unexpected place – the parking lot of a Popeyes Chicken.

It was August, and the 41-year-old Tampa man was homeless and living out of his car. He was eating in the parking lot when another homeless man approached him asking for change. Corey told the man about his own struggles with finding permanent housing.

"I felt compelled to tell him my story," Corey recalled about that summer day.

Corey, a veteran, had become homeless in January 2015 after a bad break up.

Though he had a job working the midnight shift at the James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, he didn’t have the money to obtain housing right away. So he spent his days in his car or looking for a place to shower until it was time to report to work at night.

Corey had been homeless for eight months when he met the homeless man in the Popeyes parking lot. He suggested that Corey contact the Community Housing Solutions Center, a shelter for homeless men and women.

Within a week of calling the shelter, Corey received a bed there. At the center, he spoke to a counselor once a week and began rebuilding his life.

"They try to motivate and encourage," he said on a recent day, recounting his journey.

Corey said he saw many veterans at the shelter in the same situation. He joined the military in 2006 and did a tour of Afghanistan from 2009 to 2010.

"I believe a lot of veterans don’t know about all the benefits available to them," said Corey, adding that it can take months or years for veterans to receive benefits once they apply. The process can be daunting.

"It was humbling," he said. "I just tried to stay busy."

He also tried to help.

When a fellow shelter resident got a job but didn't have a pair of steel-toe work boots he needed, Corey gave him a spare pair of his own.

Corey's case was referred to Tampa Crossroads, a nonprofit group specializing in veteran-specific services and support. That organization connected him to Hillsborough County Homeless Services. With the help of April Wales, senior case manager with Homeless Services, Corey found housing through Operation: REVEILLE, an initiative to house homeless veterans.

Community partners like Tampa Crossroads and St. Vincent DePaul routinely refer veterans in need to Hillsborough County Homeless Services and Operation: REVEILLE, Wales said.

"They really have been true partners," she said.

Each year Operation REVEILLE hosts a special rapid housing initiative on Veterans Day. Learn more about this year's event. But their work goes beyond one day in November.

"It isn't just that one day," Wales said about Operation: REVIELLE. "We’re constantly looking at the homeless veteran population to house before and after."

"Corey was among those we housed beforehand," she said.

Corey received financial assistance through Operation: REVEILLE so he could move into a two bedroom townhouse in Northwest Hillsborough County.

"I get to see my daughter every day. I'm happy. She's happy," Corey said on a recent day, wearing a crisply ironed deep-blue dress shirt and slacks. "We have a roof over our head."

His advice to other homeless veterans: "There are people out there that will help you along your journey."

If you're a veteran facing homelessness or know someone who is, contact Tampa Crossroads at 813-238-8557 or The Society of St. Vincent DePaul at 813-971-7685.
