---
title:  "Cricket: India’s pastime finds a home in Hillsborough"
url: "#"
image: "sm5.jpg"
cat: "Category"
---

Growing up in India, Nitheesh Shetty and his brothers would blow off steam with a game of Cricket. The game provided not only exercise, but a chance to bond.

When Nitheesh moved to Hillsborough County in 2004, he went looking for that same kinship through sport.

But it wasn't as easy to come by.

Nitheesh found eager players at Verizon where he worked as an IT manager. But finding a location to play proved more difficult.

"During lunch many of us would play in the parking lot," he recalled. "Whenever we could."

PreviousNexThe sport provided both physical exercise and bonding time.
Cricket, a bat and ball game somewhat similar to baseball, is played by 120 million worldwide, making it the second most popular sport next to soccer. Wildly popular in India, Cricket is also a fond pastime in South Africa, the Caribbean Islands, Canada and Sri Lanka. In recent years, the game has picked up steam locally spurred by Tampa Bay’s growing Indian community.

The region's Indian population is now estimated at more than 30,000. In 2007, Nitheesh helped form the Tampa Cricket League, which at the time consisted of four teams. The league now has 20 teams and 500 players.

Cricket provides a connection for a community trying to find their new normal.

"They want some kind of weekend activity and a binding thing which will relax them," said Nitheesh about the area's Cricket community.

Hillsborough County responded in 2012 by designating a handful of County fields for Cricket players. Recently the County announced the opening a $630,000 state of the art Cricket facility at Evans Park.

Located at 1104 N. Kingsway Rd. in Seffner, the facility has 3 Cricket fields, meets professional cricket standards and accommodates tournaments. Other features include two lighted batting cages, covered bleachers, lighting for night games, and an LED scoreboard. A ribbon cutting is scheduled for Saturday, July 18.

On a recent day Nitheesh Shetty, 39, talked about the significance of the new facility:
What was the Cricket scene like when you moved to Hillsborough County?

NS: When I came to Verizon in 2004 there were a lot of people from India in the IT department and we were playing Cricket in the parking lot just for recreational purposes. We started playing on USF (University of South Florida) grounds and would organize tournaments. We started playing wherever we could find a park or ground.

Was it difficult to find a place to play?

NS: We used to take our Cricket equipment and go play at USF, not thinking anyone would kick us out. At USF, the cops started coming and asking us to leave. That happened like five times. We ran around and played where we found grounds.

HC: The Tampa Bay Cricket League went from four teams to 20 in a short amount of time. Why do you think your league has grown so rapidly?

NS: Pretty much 75 to 80 percent of our players are from the IT industry. The rest are doctors and business owners from the community. They come here for work. But everybody needed some common ground, and Cricket was a binder. Cricket being played in India is like a cult following like soccer in Brazil. Everybody had that interest, we just needed an organized set up.

HC: Tell me about the early days of forming the league?

NS: We met at Fletcher Preserve Apartments. We formed rules around it. We couldn't have concrete rules because we didn't have a set up. That's how we started. There were a lot of teams like that -- struggling to find grounds. So I brought them together.

HC: How would you describe Cricket to someone who has never seen it played?

NS: I'd say it's similar to baseball, but where you have 3 bases in baseball, you have 2 bases in Cricket. In baseball you have to throw without bouncing the ball on the ground. In Cricket you can't bend the arm.

HC: What impact do you think the new Cricket facility at Evans Park will have?

NS: It's huge. Now you have an organized structure and ground and you can showcase it. We want Cricket to grow big in the U.S. and we want the second and third generations to pick up the sport.
